It's been two decades since Jack and Rose's ill-fated romance broke our hearts and turned "never let go" into the most romantic vow one could make.
At the time of filming, Titanic was the most expensive movie ever made, and no one could have predicted the monstrous success headed its way.
But even after dissecting the film, its stars, and the real-life events that inspired it, there are still some things about the movie that remain endlessly fascinating.
It`s Julia, you are watching HOW THEY CHANGED and now I`ll tell you some interesting facts about Titanic.
During production, the movie was called Planet Ice.
Director James Cameron used a decoy title in case other studios were making films about the RMS Titanic.
Clever? Yes, but the fake title didn't stop Leonardo DiCaprio fans from congregating near the gates of Fox Baja Studios in Mexico during filming.
Madonna was considered for the role of Rose.
It would have been a great follow-up to 1996's Evita, which earned Madonna a Golden Globe for Best Actress.
But thanks to 19-year-old Winslet's persistence, she was the only one who ended up with a winning ticket.
“I closed the script, wept floods of tears and said, ‘Right, I’ve absolutely got to be a part of this. No two ways about it,’.
To further prove she was the only person for the job, Winslet sent Cameron a small gift.
It was a rose! A rose for Rose! Winslet also wrote "a note that basically said, 'I'm ready.'
Gloria Stuart was the only Titanic cast member who was alive during Titanic’s maiden voyage in 1912.
Stuart was almost 2 when the RMS Titanic perished in the Atlantic
In 1998, she also became the oldest Academy Award nominee at 87 when she was up for Best Supporting Actress.
DiCaprio was "like a cat” on set, according to Cameron, who said DiCaprio “always made this big drama about getting wet.”
Eventually, he warmed up, quite literally, thanks to the crew members who poured buckets of warm water over the actor over months of filming.
It cost more to make Titanic the movie than Titanic the ship.
Cameron and company spent $200 million to make the film in 1997, while the ship cost $7.5 million.
That number would be $180 million after adjusted inflation.
Rose stared at an incorrect star field in the film's original release.
Towards the end of the movie, a near-frozen Rose sees a sparkly night sky as Jack makes his way to the frozen afterlife.
Unfortunately, that's not what a real Titanic survivor would have seen given the coordinates in the water, according to astrophysicist Neil deGrasse Tyson.
Ahead of the film’s 15-year re-release in 2012, Cameron adjusted it and revealed that Tyson sent him a “snarky e-mail” pointing out the error.
“And with my reputation as a perfectionist, I should have known that and I should have put the right star field in," said Cameron.
"So I said, ‘All right, send me the right stars for the exact time and I’ll put it in the movie.’”
Those are not DiCaprio’s hands drawing Rose.
As Titanic fans know, Cameron was the skilled artist behind Jack's drawing of Rose wearing nothing but the Heart of the Ocean.
In 2011, the drawing sold for “at least $16,000” in an auction.
Near the end of the shoot, about 50 members of the cast and crew were sent to the hospital after eating spiked chowder.
80 people were sent to the hospital with hallucinations.
It happened just after midnight on Aug. 9, 1996 in Dartmouth, someone had laced the lobster chowder with PCP or angel dust.
The case inspired several conspiracy theories, including one involving an angry chef that had been let go.
The piece of wooden paneling that Rose floated on after the sinking is based upon
a genuine artifact that survived the sinking and is on display at the Maritime Museum of the Atlantic in Halifax.
Titanic was the first film James Cameron ever directed that did not include or mention nuclear weapons.
Thanks for watching! Stay awesome and take care friends.